1.What is COVID-19?
Ans:COVID-19 is caused by SARS-CoV2, a new strain of coronavirus that has not previously been identified in humans. It was first identified in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China in 2019, where it caused a large and ongoing outbreak. It has been declared a global pandemic. The COVID-19 virus is closely related to a bat coronavirus.Outbreaks of new coronavirus infections among people are always a public health concern. The situation is continually evolving.Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses. Some coronaviruses cause illness in humans and others cause illness in animals, such as bats, camels and civets. Human coronaviruses generally cause mild illness, such as the common cold. The COVID-19 virus is significantly different from viruses causing the 'flu (influenza virus) and other respiratory illnesses (for example, RSV, rhinovirus)




2.How is COVID-19 spread?
Ans:The virus can spread from an infected person's mouth or nose in small liquid particles when they cough, sneeze, speak, sing or breathe heavily



3.What are the symptoms of COVID-19?
Ans:Symptoms of COVID-19 include:

i.fever (37.5 ° or higher)
ii.cough
iii.sore throat
iv.shortness of breath (difficulty breathing)
v.runny nose
vi.loss of taste
vii.loss of smell

4.IF I’VE HAD COVID-19, DO I REALLY NEED THE VACCINE?
Ans:Vaccines mimic our body’s natural response to infection. However while a previous infection does give you some immunity against COVID-19, vaccination gives your body a massive immune boost – including against new variants.


5.DO COVID-19 VACCINES AFFECT FERTILITY OR PERIODS?
Ans:Anecdotal evidence suggests the vaccine could temporarily affect menstruation, but the effects are short-lived and scientists say there is no evidence that vaccines affect fertility.


6.What are the common side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine?
Ans:Reported side effects to COVID-19 vaccines have mostly been mild to moderate and short-lasting. They include: fever, fatigue, headache, muscle pain, chills, diarrhoea, and pain at the injection site. The chances of any of these side effects following vaccination differ according to the specific COVID-19 vaccine.























